
Syllabus - Full Stack Immersive (January 2018)

Bear in mind that this syllabus is very likely to change throughout the cohort, but only for the better of course!
Week 1 - Developer Fundamentals

In your first week, you will gain core coding skills using the Python programming language.

In addition, you will know how to manage your project code by using a variety of tools, such as the command line and git.

    Introduction to the command line
    Programming fundamentals with Python
    Sharing code with git and Github

Algorithm FriYay!

In order to prep you for technical interview, we will practice with algorithms and interview questions.
Week 2 - Solving Problems Using Code

You will work through a number of coding challenges by building solutions in Python. Along the way, you will learn how and when to use data structures like dictionaries, objects, and classes.

You will tackle your first programming project and create a 2D game. By the end of the week, you will have plenty of experience reading, understanding, and debugging coding errors.

    Storing and working with data
        dictionaries
        objects
        classes

    Using the pygame library

Example Projects

    Building 2D graphics games

Algorithm FriYay!
Week 3 - Front-End Foundations

You will build your front-end web skills starting with HTML and CSS. You will learn how to create web pages, format their contents, and finely control the layout. To do that, you will recreate several popular web page designs (such as medium.com's look and feel).

Then, you will learn techniques to make your layouts auto-adjust to the screen size of whatever device is used to view your web pages. Finally, you will learn to use Bootstrap, a popular and flexible styling framework.

    HTML 101
    CSS 101
    Box Model
    CSS Positioning
    Specificity
    Implementing a responsive design
    Flexbox
    Grid
    Media Queries
    Bootstrap UI framework

Example Projects

    Creating a personal web page
    Making the Google search page
    Implementing a blog layout

Algorithm FriYay!
Week 4 - Handling user input with JavaScript

Now that you can present information to your users, it is time for them to talk back! To provide this kind of interactivity on your web pages, you will begin mastering the basics of JavaScript - the language of the web. Using the same programming fundamentals you learned with Python, you will build a series of interactive games.

And, to make sure your friends and family can play these games, you will learn how to deploy your web-based games to Linux servers running on Amazon's AWS platform. This will be an intense week, but extremely rewarding!

    Introduction to JavaScript
    ES5
    Functions
    Scoping and hoisting
    Callbacks
    DOM
    CSS transitions and animations
    Forms and validation

Example Projects

    Countdown timer
    Photo Gallery
    Tic Tac Toe

Algorithm FriYay!
Quiz #1

Your first quiz!
Week 5 - Building Interactive UIs with jQuery

jQuery is the most widely used JavaScript library in the world, and for good reason. You will learn how to use the power of jQuery to quickly develop highly interactive web pages. You will build more games this week, but using animations and transitions to provide visual feedback to your users.

There will be times you will need some, but not all, of jQuery's capabilities. You will learn how and when to use CSS for animation, as well as how to use Bootstrap's built-in visual feedback features.

    jQuery
        Selectors
        Event listeners
        Creating DOM elements

    Ajax
        fetch
        $.ajax

    IIFEs

    Promises

    Event loop

    Web APIs

    Deploying to Amazon Web Services

Example Projects

    Weather widget
    Stock ticker
    Coffee order form

Algorithm FriYay!
Performance Review #1

Time for some quick feedback from your instructor to make sure you are on track… and to submit feedback for your instructor!
Week 6 - Intro to Agile/Scrum + Front End Project Week

    Using git and Github to manage your code
    Code reviews

Week 7 - Introduction to Backend Development

Up to now, you've only worked with half of the web - the half that works in the browser. To create web pages that allow for collaboration between users (multi-player games, social media sites, etc.), you will need to write code that runs on the server. This week you will create a simple web server (yes, a web server!) using Node.js.

Just like JavaScript on the browser, there are a number of handy libraries that you can use. You will learn to install and manage those using the npm command that comes with Node.js.

One of these libraries will let you use WebSockets for building real-time applications. As an exercise, you'll build the backend and front-end of a chat application.

    Node.js

    npm

    File IO

    async and sync APIs

    WebSockets

    ES2015
        Variables
        Arrow functions
        Destructuring
        Modules

    Next generation JavaScript
        Babel

Example Projects

    Build a basic web server
    Build a chat application

Algorithm FriYay!
Week 8 - Databases

At the heart of any blog, social media site, or collaborateive web app is its databse. Often, your data will have complex relationships ("a blog post has an author and one or more comments from a registered user"). Dealing with this data is straightforward, as long as you can speak the language. This week, you will learn how to "talk" to a database using SQL (Structured Query Langauge).

    PostgreSQL
    Create statements
    Insert statements
    Select statements
    Where statements
    Foreign keys and joins
    Group by and aggregate statements

As your backend code gets larger and more complex, you will need ways to store data, organize your code, and develop quickly. This week you'll be using the Express.js framework, a minimalist backend framework that will help you write backend code. You'll learn how to take advantage of Express.js's routing, templating, and session management.

    Sequelize
    Express.js
    ES2017 async functions
    JSON Web Tokens
    Bcrypt

Example Projects

    Build your own wiki
    Intelligent flash card app

Algorithm FriYay!
Week 9 - Full Stack Group Project
Quiz #2

Your second (and last) quiz.
Week 10 - Career Development + Portfolio Week

It is now time to piece together your hard work to illustrate how you can add value to your future employer. Arming yourself with the tools necessary to succeed in the job search is just as important as learning how to become the best software engineer. You will spend a minimum of 3 days this week preparing your resume, portfolio, and undergoing a round of mock interviews with professional engineers.

    Resume Development
    Portfolio Development
    Mock Interview Training
    Guest Speakers

Algorithm FriYay!
Performance Review #2

Get feedback, give feedback!
Week 11 - Introducing React

React is a small but flexible front-end library that helps you create UIs. It is especially well-suited for UIs that need to display data that updates frequently. This week, you will learn the basics of building React applications, relying primarily on your understanding of JavaScript fundamentals.

You will start with simple functions that draw data to the page and build up your React knowledge. By the end of the week, you will be creating and (re)using highly-performant React components.

    Components
    JSX
    Stateless functional components
    state and props
    Lifecycle API
    Virtual DOM
    create-react-app
    React Dev Tools

Example Projects

    Secret message encoder
    Shopping list
    Real-time public transit dashboard

Algorithm FriYay!
Week 12 - The React Ecosystem

React has made a lot of friends in its first few years of life. To write fluent React code that takes advantage of battle-tested libraries, you will want to be friends with React's friends.

This week involves learning the basics of a lot of different tools that help you write high-quality React code.

    Yarn
    React Router
    Axios
    CSS Modules
    Higher-order components
    Functional programming patterns

Example Projects

    Wikipedia
    Twitter

Algorithm FriYay!
Week 13 - Managing Application State with Redux

You will learn how to work with complex data in your React applications using the industry-standard Redux library. Redux mirrors React's one-way data flow and helps wrangle user interactions that cause complex changes to your data.

    Redux Intro
    The state tree
    Redux DevTools
    Reducers
    Actions

Example Projects

    eCommerce site
    Music player

Algorithm FriYay!
Week 14 - Additional Topics + Full Stack Project Week

We'll cover a number of bonus topics in this week prior to the beginning of the final project. Examples include:

    Progressive Web Apps
    React Native
    AR
    React VR
    Next.js (Server-Rendered React)
    GraphQL
    Functional reactive programming with RxJS

Additional backend topics:

    Koa.js
    Templating
    Sessions
    Cookies
    OAuth 2

Weeks 15, 16 - Capstone project
Performance Review #3